# Face_Liveness_Detection_using-YOLOv8
One of the vital parts of the security Authentication system is the personal and professional information. The traditional methods can be hacked or compromised using the minimum amount of information about the victim. Every day, millions of people fall prey to pattern, PIN, and biometric password hacking, which has put a great threat to people's privacy. The introduction of face recognition in the iPhone X in 2017 set new standards for the accuracy of face recognition. Later, however, deepfakes and other AI tools were introduced to mimic or impersonate a person, putting a threat to face recognition since deepfakes are so realistic that they confuse the system as to whether or not to provide access to the imposter. Therefore, the data can be held hostage for ransom. To enhance security, some users choose to add an extra layer to face recognition known as face liveness detection. It ensures that the person accessing the data, files, or any content on the system should actually be present there to do so. This mechanism has significantly reduced the number of face recognition hacks. Various approaches have been taken in the detection and classification of faces based on images of fake and real Faces. From the past, researchers have made extensive progress in detecting real and fake faces by exploring various techniques. The YOLOv8 model has been selected because it is less resource-intensive and works fine with a little data. The YOLOv8 model along with the CVZone, OpenCV, PyTorch, etc. are used in this project to achieve a total accuracy of 85%.
